topics/legacy_code/proj_courses_search.md, before:

---
parent: Legacy Code
grand_parent: Topics
layout: default
title: "Legacy Code: Courses Search"
description:  "Project specific documentation"
---

# {{page.title}}

Courses search is intended as an application that provides a more functional version of the official public
facing course search app available at the address: <https://my.sa.ucsb.edu/public/curriculum/coursesearch.aspx>

Our version, currently deployed at <https://courses.dokku-00.cs.ucsb.edu> provides many more features:

For example:
* Search by instructor (What courses has Diba Mirza taught?)
* Search by course over a range of quarters (Who has taught CMPSC 130A over time?)
* and many more

## UCSB_API_KEY values

To deploy proj-courses, in addition to the usual GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID and GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET needed for other OAuth apps
in this course, you will also need a value for UCSB_API_KEY.  This is a key that gives you access to the API for UCSB course information.  These keys are obtained from the website <https://developer.ucsb.edu>.

You can request your own account, but it is typically faster to get one from the instructor, who will provide it to you on your
team slack channel.

When setting up API keys, we typically enable all of the API endpoints that are not sensitive or protected (i.e. the auto-approved endpoints.)  As of this writing, those are these endpoints:

* Academics - Events
* Academics - Academic Quarter Calendar
* Academics - Curriculums
* Dining - Dining Commons
* Dining - Dining Menu
* Students - Student Record Code Lookups

The ones that are currently used in the app are:

* Academics - Curriculums
* Students - Student Record Code Lookups

## MongoDB Collections

The Courses Search application uses a MongoDB collection as backup storage for the UCSB Curriculum information, so you will also 
need to set up a MongoDB collection and put the URL for that collection in your environment variables.  Read on for more explanation.

## Why MongoDB for UCSB Courses Search

While it might seem redundant to cache curriculum information in a separate database (vs. just going to the API each time), doing so provides several important advantages:

* It may be faster to get data from the MongoDB collection than from the UCSB API for some queries
* Some query types are not supported directly by the UCSB API; in particular, the UCSB API does not support searches across multiple quarters; it can
  only retrieve data for one quarter at a time.
* It provides a backup in case the UCSB API ever becomes unavailable temporarily or permanently.

In addition, it provides an opportunity to learn about how to work with a MongoDB database.

## The main collection

The main database in your MongoDB deployment should be called `database`, and the main collection should be called `courses`.

You can do queries like as shown below.  This is a query that finds all records for quarter `20231` (Winter 2023) and the enroll code `07443`. 

```
{ 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'section.enrollCode' : '07443' }
```

<img width="967" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203236404-32c67f00-11b7-46ae-8c98-d1b6f27548ce.png">

As we can see here, this brings up two records; this is the result of loading the data for this quarter twice without first defining an index to prevent duplicates (as illustrated below).


## Avoiding Duplicate Data

To avoid duplicate data, it is helpful to define an indexes that prevents storing multiple documents with the same quarter and enroll code.  Here's how.

First, we want to ensure that the combination of `courseInfo.quarter` (e.g. "20231") and `section.enrollCode` (e.g. `07443`) is unique, so that we don't end up storing duplicate data.  We can do that by defining an index like this:

Go to the index tab (second over in MongoDB.com collections page):

<img width="977" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235608-4ba7d26b-65c2-4042-800f-b303fcc920ae.png">

Click the `Create Index` button at right: 

<img width="126" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235693-e4e97ab5-b9fd-4a4c-adcd-a40c460edc3c.png">

That brings up this modal: 

<img width="714" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235761-c7918199-2af8-481e-b529-97351301de54.png">

Fill in `Fields` with:

```
{
  "courseInfo.quarter": 1,
  "section.enrollCode" : 1
}
```

Then fill in options with:

```
{unique:true}
```

So that it looks like this:

<img width="701" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203236005-98152214-4f72-435f-9344-c5f43a7a95a5.png">


Then click "Review".

Note that if you already have duplicate data, adding this constraint will not eliminate those. You may need to drop the collection and recreate it with the constraint in place (i.e. add the constraint before you start adding data.)

# Querying Data in MongoDB

The animation below shows how to do some basic queries in MongoDB.

A few tips:
* Use single quotes, not double quotes.
* Query by simply listing the keys (using dot notation for nested fields) and the values those fields should have.
* Examples:

  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231'}
  ```

  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.title': 'INTRO DATA SCI 1' }
  ```
  
  
  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.title': 'INTRO DATA SCI 1' , 'section.enrollCode' : '07443'}
  ```

  


![see-mongodb-data](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203417526-acb3ebab-3669-4940-a434-5e3953022541.gif)

# Queries with regex

You can use regular expressions to match course ids that start with a certain subject area.  For example, this will find courses
in quarter `20231` where the `courseInfo.courseId` field starts with `MATH`:

```
{ 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.courseId': { $regex: /MATH/ }}
```

# Staff Setup for proj-courses 

<details markdown="1">
<summary markdown="1">
This section is for the staff and instructor.  Students and others are welcome to look at it, but it typically doesn't pertain unless you are on the staff of the course (instructor/TA/LA).  Click the triangle to reveal the details.
</summary>


## Set up on MongoDB,com

Dokku does have the ability to create MongoDB instances, and eventually it would be nice to migrate to that solution.  For the time being, however, we have not figured out how to take advantage of that capability and connect it to our Spring Boot code bases. Therefore, for the time being, we are using the free tier of <https://mongodb.com> to provision mongodb databases for our courses.

To set up resources for proj-courses for CS156 using mongodb.com, here is how we've proceeded in the past.

First, login to MongoDB.com with your UCSB Google Account.

### Creating an organization

Here is how you navigate to the page where you can create a new organization, as illustrated in the animation below:

1. Select the dropdown, upper left, that shows your organizations.
2. Scroll to the bottom where it says: `All Organizations`
3. On that page, a `Create New Organization` button appears at upper left.

![mongodb-navigate-to-create-new-org](https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/4d1979d4-6230-4e42-ae1f-aab771ccc5f7)

The form to create a new organization has multiple pages.  On the first page, put in the name
of your organization (e.g. `ucsb-cs156-f23`), select `MongoDB Atlas` and then scroll down and click `Next`

<img width="781" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/06817ce4-583a-47f6-acd6-913888a169c5">

<img width="820" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/327d3573-8f01-4450-9d21-f8d8d1918646">

On the next screen, take the default (which is that the option `Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API` is selected) and click `Create Organization`

<img width="716" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/bb16b946-68df-404a-9d41-7333bb514ec7">

That takes you to this screen, where you can create projects:

<img width="1082" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/53052694-18ab-4102-9390-268a3902d571">

</details>

Commit message:

Update proj_courses_search.md - creating projects

topics/legacy_code/proj_courses_search.md, after:

---
parent: Legacy Code
grand_parent: Topics
layout: default
title: "Legacy Code: Courses Search"
description:  "Project specific documentation"
---

# {{page.title}}

Courses search is intended as an application that provides a more functional version of the official public
facing course search app available at the address: <https://my.sa.ucsb.edu/public/curriculum/coursesearch.aspx>

Our version, currently deployed at <https://courses.dokku-00.cs.ucsb.edu> provides many more features:

For example:
* Search by instructor (What courses has Diba Mirza taught?)
* Search by course over a range of quarters (Who has taught CMPSC 130A over time?)
* and many more

## UCSB_API_KEY values

To deploy proj-courses, in addition to the usual GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID and GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET needed for other OAuth apps
in this course, you will also need a value for UCSB_API_KEY.  This is a key that gives you access to the API for UCSB course information.  These keys are obtained from the website <https://developer.ucsb.edu>.

You can request your own account, but it is typically faster to get one from the instructor, who will provide it to you on your
team slack channel.

When setting up API keys, we typically enable all of the API endpoints that are not sensitive or protected (i.e. the auto-approved endpoints.)  As of this writing, those are these endpoints:

* Academics - Events
* Academics - Academic Quarter Calendar
* Academics - Curriculums
* Dining - Dining Commons
* Dining - Dining Menu
* Students - Student Record Code Lookups

The ones that are currently used in the app are:

* Academics - Curriculums
* Students - Student Record Code Lookups

## MongoDB Collections

The Courses Search application uses a MongoDB collection as backup storage for the UCSB Curriculum information, so you will also 
need to set up a MongoDB collection and put the URL for that collection in your environment variables.  Read on for more explanation.

## Why MongoDB for UCSB Courses Search

While it might seem redundant to cache curriculum information in a separate database (vs. just going to the API each time), doing so provides several important advantages:

* It may be faster to get data from the MongoDB collection than from the UCSB API for some queries
* Some query types are not supported directly by the UCSB API; in particular, the UCSB API does not support searches across multiple quarters; it can
  only retrieve data for one quarter at a time.
* It provides a backup in case the UCSB API ever becomes unavailable temporarily or permanently.

In addition, it provides an opportunity to learn about how to work with a MongoDB database.

## The main collection

The main database in your MongoDB deployment should be called `database`, and the main collection should be called `courses`.

You can do queries like as shown below.  This is a query that finds all records for quarter `20231` (Winter 2023) and the enroll code `07443`. 

```
{ 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'section.enrollCode' : '07443' }
```

<img width="967" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203236404-32c67f00-11b7-46ae-8c98-d1b6f27548ce.png">

As we can see here, this brings up two records; this is the result of loading the data for this quarter twice without first defining an index to prevent duplicates (as illustrated below).


## Avoiding Duplicate Data

To avoid duplicate data, it is helpful to define an indexes that prevents storing multiple documents with the same quarter and enroll code.  Here's how.

First, we want to ensure that the combination of `courseInfo.quarter` (e.g. "20231") and `section.enrollCode` (e.g. `07443`) is unique, so that we don't end up storing duplicate data.  We can do that by defining an index like this:

Go to the index tab (second over in MongoDB.com collections page):

<img width="977" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235608-4ba7d26b-65c2-4042-800f-b303fcc920ae.png">

Click the `Create Index` button at right: 

<img width="126" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235693-e4e97ab5-b9fd-4a4c-adcd-a40c460edc3c.png">

That brings up this modal: 

<img width="714" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203235761-c7918199-2af8-481e-b529-97351301de54.png">

Fill in `Fields` with:

```
{
  "courseInfo.quarter": 1,
  "section.enrollCode" : 1
}
```

Then fill in options with:

```
{unique:true}
```

So that it looks like this:

<img width="701" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203236005-98152214-4f72-435f-9344-c5f43a7a95a5.png">


Then click "Review".

Note that if you already have duplicate data, adding this constraint will not eliminate those. You may need to drop the collection and recreate it with the constraint in place (i.e. add the constraint before you start adding data.)

# Querying Data in MongoDB

The animation below shows how to do some basic queries in MongoDB.

A few tips:
* Use single quotes, not double quotes.
* Query by simply listing the keys (using dot notation for nested fields) and the values those fields should have.
* Examples:

  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231'}
  ```

  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.title': 'INTRO DATA SCI 1' }
  ```
  
  
  ```
  { 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.title': 'INTRO DATA SCI 1' , 'section.enrollCode' : '07443'}
  ```

  


![see-mongodb-data](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1119017/203417526-acb3ebab-3669-4940-a434-5e3953022541.gif)

# Queries with regex

You can use regular expressions to match course ids that start with a certain subject area.  For example, this will find courses
in quarter `20231` where the `courseInfo.courseId` field starts with `MATH`:

```
{ 'courseInfo.quarter' : '20231', 'courseInfo.courseId': { $regex: /MATH/ }}
```

# Staff Setup for proj-courses 

<details markdown="1">
<summary markdown="1">
This section is for the staff and instructor.  Students and others are welcome to look at it, but it typically doesn't pertain unless you are on the staff of the course (instructor/TA/LA).  Click the triangle to reveal the details.
</summary>


## Set up on MongoDB,com

Dokku does have the ability to create MongoDB instances, and eventually it would be nice to migrate to that solution.  For the time being, however, we have not figured out how to take advantage of that capability and connect it to our Spring Boot code bases. Therefore, for the time being, we are using the free tier of <https://mongodb.com> to provision mongodb databases for our courses.

To set up resources for proj-courses for CS156 using mongodb.com, here is how we've proceeded in the past.

First, login to MongoDB.com with your UCSB Google Account.

### Creating an organization

Here is how you navigate to the page where you can create a new organization, as illustrated in the animation below:

1. Select the dropdown, upper left, that shows your organizations.
2. Scroll to the bottom where it says: `All Organizations`
3. On that page, a `Create New Organization` button appears at upper left.

![mongodb-navigate-to-create-new-org](https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/4d1979d4-6230-4e42-ae1f-aab771ccc5f7)

The form to create a new organization has multiple pages.  On the first page, put in the name
of your organization (e.g. `ucsb-cs156-f23`), select `MongoDB Atlas` and then scroll down and click `Next`

<img width="781" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/06817ce4-583a-47f6-acd6-913888a169c5">

<img width="820" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/327d3573-8f01-4450-9d21-f8d8d1918646">

On the next screen, take the default (which is that the option `Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API` is selected) and click `Create Organization`

<img width="716" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/bb16b946-68df-404a-9d41-7333bb514ec7">

That takes you to this screen, where you can create projects:

<img width="1082" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/53052694-18ab-4102-9390-268a3902d571">

### Creating Projects in a MongoDB Organization

If you just created your organization, it will probably be selected as the default organization, upper left, but if not, select your organization like this:

![mongo-db-select-org](https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/abb89820-a37a-4eb9-89f7-40f6a904389f)

Then, click `Projects` in the left nav to get to the Projects page where you can see your projects and create a new project by clicking the `New Project` button.  I suggest creating one project per team (for the teams that need a MongoDB deployment, which includes, at least, all teams working on proj-courses).  Here, we'll just create the projects, and deal with adding users as a separate step.

![mongo-db-create-projects](https://github.com/ucsb-cs156/ucsb-cs156.github.io/assets/1119017/9d65cc3f-416f-44e5-a16a-01d69982c5fc)

Now that we have one project per team, we'll add users and create deployments.

### Adding Users to a Project








</details>
